# Helm Resource for Concourse

Deploy to [Kubernetes Helm](https://github.com/kubernetes/helm) from [Concourse](https://concourse.ci/).

## Installing

Add the resource type to your pipeline:

```yaml
resource_types:
- name: helm
  type: docker-image
  source:
    repository: linkyard/concourse-helm-resource
```

## Source Configuration

-   `gcloud_cluster_auth`: _Optional._ Set to true to use gcloud service account file for kubernetes cluster authentication.

-   `gcloud_service_account_key_file`: _Optional_ Manadatory if gcloud_cluster_auth is set to true. Pass gcloud service accon json contents as value.

-   `gcloud_project_name`: _Optional_ Manadatory if gcloud_cluster_auth is set to true. Pass gcloud project name where cluster is installed.

-   `gcloud_k8s_cluster_name`: _Optional_ Manadatory if gcloud_cluster_auth is set to true. Pass gcloud cluster name.

-   `gcloud_k8s_zone`: _Optional_ Manadatory if gcloud_cluster_auth is set to true. Pass gcloud kubernetes cluster zone.

-   `cluster_url`: _Optional._ URL to Kubernetes Master API service. Do not set when using the `kubeconfig_path` parameter, otherwise required.
-   `cluster_ca`: _Optional._ Base64 encoded PEM. Required if `cluster_url` is https.
-   `token`: _Optional._ Bearer token for Kubernetes.  This, 'token_path' or `admin_key`/`admin_cert` are required if `cluster_url` is https.
-   `token_path`: _Optional._ Path to file containing the bearer token for Kubernetes.  This, 'token' or `admin_key`/`admin_cert` are required if `cluster_url` is https.
-   `admin_key`: _Optional._ Base64 encoded PEM. Required if `cluster_url` is https and no `token` or 'token_path' is provided.
-   `admin_cert`: _Optional._ Base64 encoded PEM. Required if `cluster_url` is https and no `token` or 'token_path' is provided.
-   `release`: _Optional._ Name of the release (not a file, a string). (Default: autogenerated by helm)
-   `namespace`: _Optional._ Kubernetes namespace the chart will be installed into. (Default: default)
-   `tillerless`: _Optional._ Set to true to use tiller-less mode (Default: false). See <https://rimusz.net/tillerless-helm/>.
-   `helm_init_server`: _Optional._ Installs helm into the cluster if not already installed. (Default: false). Not supported when using tillerless.
-   `tiller_namespace`: _Optional._ Kubernetes namespace where tiller is running (or will be installed to). (Default: kube-system)
-   `tiller_cert`: _Optional_ Certificate for Tiller (only applies if tls_enabled and helm_init_server are true).
-   `tiller_key`: _Optional_ Key created for Tiller when doing a secure Tiller install (only applies if tls_enabled and helm_init_server are true).
-   `tiller_service_account`: _Optional_ Name of the service account that tiller will use (only applies if helm_init_server is true).
-   `helm_ca`: _Optional_ Private CA that is used to issue certificates for Tiller clients and servers (only applies if tls_enabled is true).
-   `helm_cert`: _Optional_ Certificate for Client (only applies if tls_enabled is true).
-   `helm_key`: _Optional_ Key created for Client when doing a secure Tiller install (only applies if tls_enabled is true).
-   `tls_enabled`: _Optional_ Uses TLS for all interactions with Tiller. (Default: false). Not supported when using tillerless.
-   `helm_history_max`: _Optional._ Limits the maximum number of revisions. (Default: 0 = no limit)
-   `helm_host`: _Optional_ Address of Tiller. Skips helm discovery process. (only applies if `helm_init_server` is false).
-   `repos`: _Optional._ Array of Helm repositories to initialize, each repository is defined as an object with properties `name`, `url` (required) username and password (optional).
-   `plugins`: _Optional._ Array of Helm plugins to install, each defined as an object with properties `url` (required), `version` (optional).
-   `stable_repo`: _Optional_ Override default Helm stable repo <https://kubernetes-charts.storage.googleapis.com>. Useful if running helm deploys without internet access.
-   `kubeconfig_namespace`: _Optional._ Use the kubeconfig context namespace as the helm namespace. (Default: false)
-   `kubeconfig_tiller_namespace`: _Optional._ Use the kubeconfig context namespace as the tiller namespace. (Default: false)
-   `tracing_enabled`: _Optional._ Enable extremely verbose tracing for this resource. Useful when developing the resource itself. May allow secrets to be displayed. (Default: false)
-   `helm_init_wait`: _Optional._ When initializing the helm server, use the `--wait` option. (Default: false)
-   `helm_setup_purge_all`: _Optional._ Delete and purge every helm release. Use with extreme caution. (Default: false)

## Behavior

### `check`: Check for new releases

Any new revisions to the release are returned, no matter their current state. The release and cluster url must be specified in the
source for `check` to work.

### `in`: Not Supported

### `out`: Deploy the helm chart

Deploys a Helm chart onto the Kubernetes cluster. Tiller must be already installed
on the cluster.

#### Parameters

-   `chart`: _Required._ Either the file containing the helm chart to deploy (ends with .tgz), the path to a local directory containing the chart or the name of the chart from a repo (e.g. `stable/mysql`).
-   `namespace`: _Optional._ Either a file containing the name of the namespace or the name of the namespace. (Default: taken from source configuration).
-   `release`: _Optional._ Either a file containing the name of the release or the name of the release. (Default: taken from source configuration).
-   `values`: _Optional._ File containing the values.yaml for the deployment. Supports setting multiple value files using an array.
-   `override_values`: _Optional._ Array of values that can override those defined in values.yaml. Each entry in
    the array is a map containing a key and a value or path. Value is set directly while path reads the contents of
    the file in that path. A `hide: true` parameter ensures that the value is not logged and instead replaced with `***HIDDEN***`.
    A `type: string` parameter makes sure Helm always treats the value as a string (uses the `--set-string` option to Helm; useful if the value varies
    and may look like a number, eg. if it's a Git commit hash).
-   `token_path`: _Optional._ Path to file containing the bearer token for Kubernetes.  This, 'token' or `admin_key`/`admin_cert` are required if `cluster_url` is https.
-   `version`: _Optional_ Chart version to deploy, can be a file or a value. Only applies if `chart` is not a file.
-   `delete`: _Optional._ Deletes the release instead of installing it. Requires the `name`. (Default: false)
-   `test`: _Optional._ Test the release instead of installing it. Requires the `release`. (Default: false)
-   `purge`: _Optional._ Purge the release on delete. (Default: false)
-   `replace`: _Optional._ Replace deleted release with same name. (Default: false)
-   `force`: _Optional._ Force resource update through delete/recreate if needed. (Default: false)
-   `devel`: _Optional._ Allow development versions of chart to be installed. This is useful when wanting to install pre-release
    charts (i.e. 1.0.2-rc1) without having to specify a version. (Default: false)
-   `debug`: _Optional._ Dry run the helm install with the debug flag which logs interpolated chart templates. (Default: false)
-   `wait_until_ready`: _Optional._ Set to the number of seconds it should wait until all the resources in
      the chart are ready. (Default: `0` which means don't wait).
-   `check_is_ready`: _Optional._ Requires that `wait_until_ready` is set to Default. Applies --wait without timeout. (Default: false)
-   `recreate_pods`: _Optional._ This flag will cause all pods to be recreated when upgrading. (Default: false)
-   `show_diff`: _Optional._ Show the diff that is applied if upgrading an existing successful release. Will not be used when `devel` is set. (Default: false)
-   `exit_after_diff`: _Optional._ Show the diff but don't actually install/upgrade. (Default: false)
-   `reuse_values`: _Optional._ When upgrading, reuse the last release's values. (Default: false)
-   `reset_values`: _Optional._ When upgrading, reset the values to the ones built into the chart. (Default: false)
-   `wait`: _Optional._ Allows deploy task to sleep for X seconds before continuing to next task. Allows pods to restart and become stable, useful where dependency between pods exists. (Default: 0)
-   `kubeconfig_path`: _Optional._ File containing a kubeconfig. Overrides source configuration for cluster, token, and admin config.

## Example

### Out

Define the resource for authentication with certificates as follows:

```yaml
resources:
- name: myapp-helm
  type: helm
  source:
    cluster_url: https://kube-master.domain.example
    cluster_ca: _base64 encoded CA pem_
    admin_key: _base64 encoded key pem_
    admin_cert: _base64 encoded certificate pem_
    repos:
      - name: some_repo
        url: https://somerepo.github.io/charts
```


Define the resource for authentication with gcloud sevice account json as follows:

```yaml
resources:
- name: myapp-helm-gcloud
  type: helm
  source:
    gcloud_cluster_auth: true
    gcloud_service_account_key_file: _plain service account json file_
    gcloud_project_name: _project name_
    gcloud_k8s_cluster_name: _k8s cluster name_
    gcloud_k8s_zone: _k8s zone_
    repos:
      - name: some_repo
        url: https://somerepo.github.io/charts
```




Add to job:

```yaml
jobs:
  # ...
  plan:
  - put: myapp-helm
    params:
      chart: source-repo/chart-0.0.1.tgz
      values: source-repo/values.yaml
      override_values:
      - key: replicas
        value: 2
      - key: version
        path: version/number # Read value from version/number
      - key: secret
        value: ((my-top-secret-value)) # Pulled from a credentials backend like Vault
        hide: true # Hides value in output
      - key: image.tag
        path: version/image_tag # Read value from version/number
        type: string            # Make sure it's interpreted as a string by Helm (not a number)
```
